Getting started update (#998)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/getting-started/compress-data.md

# Compression policies

TimescaleDB includes native compression capabilities which enable you to
analyze and query massive amounts of historical time-series data inside a
database while also saving on storage costs. Additionally, all PostgreSQL data 
types can be used in compression.

Compressing time-series data in a hypertable is a two-step process. First, you 
need to enable compression on a hypertable by telling TimescaleDB how to compress 
and order the data as it is compressed. Once compression is enabled, the data can 
then be compressed in one of two ways:
1. Using an automatic policy
2. Manually compressing chunks

> ## Enabling TimescaleDB compression on the hypertable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable TimescaleDB compression on the hypertable
```

To enable compression, you need to [`ALTER` the `stocks_real_time` hypertable][alter-table-compression]. There
are three parameters you can specify when enabling compression:
* `timescaledb.compress` (required): enable TimescaleDB compression on the hypertable
* `timescaledb.compress_orderby` (optional): column(s) used to order compressed data
* `timescaledb.compress_segmentby` (optional): column(s) used to group compressed data

If you do not specify `compress_orderby` or `compress_segmentby` column(s), the compressed data is automatically ordered by the hypertable time column.

<procedure>

> ### Enable compression on a hypertable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enabling compression on a hypertable
```

<highlight type="note">
 To learn more about the `segmentby` and `orderby` options for compression in TimescaleDB and how 

>  to pick the right columns, see this detailed explanation in the [TimescaleDB compression docs](/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/compression/).

Reviewer 2: I think you need the full URL, but you can't use `:currentVersion:`. 

```suggestion
 to pick the right columns, see this detailed explanation in the 
 [TimescaleDB compression docs](https://docs.timescale.com/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/compression/).
```

SELECT * FROM timescaledb_information.compression_settings;
```

Sample results:
```
hypertable_schema|hypertable_name |attname|segmentby_column_index|orderby_column_index|orderby_asc|orderby_nullsfirst|
-----------------+----------------+-------+----------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------------+
public           |stocks_real_time|symbol |                     1|                    |           |                  |
public           |stocks_real_time|time   |                      |                   1|false      |true              |
```

## Automatic compression
When you have enabled compression, you can schedule a [policy to automatically compress][compress-automatic]
data according to the settings defined above. 

> For example, if you want to compress data on your hypertable that has existed more than a month
> in the past, you could use this code:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to compress data on your hypertable that is older than two weeks, run the following SQL:
```

```sql
SELECT add_compression_policy('stocks_real_time', INTERVAL '2 weeks');
```

Similar to the continuous aggregates policy and retention policies, when you run this SQL, all 

> chunks that contain data that is at least two old are compressed in `stocks_real_time`, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
chunks that contain data that is at least two weeks old are compressed in `stocks_real_time`, 
```

and a recurring compression policy is created. 

It is important that you don't try to compress all your data. Although you can insert
new data into compressed chunks, compressed rows can't be updated or deleted. Therefore,
it is best to only compress data after it has aged, once data is less likely to require updating.  

Just like for automated policies for continuous aggregates, you can view information and statistics 
about your compression background job in these two information views:

> ```sql

Reviewer: Suggest splitting these into two code blocks so the comments can be extracted into the regular text. (They really are very hard to read because the color contrast is so low.)

**Manual Compression**

While we recommend using compression policies to compress data automatically,
there might be situations where you need to [manually compress chunks][compress-manual]. 

Use this query to manually compress chunks that consist of data older than
2 weeks:

```sql
SELECT compress_chunk(i)
FROM show_chunks('stocks_real_time', older_than => INTERVAL ' 2 weeks') i;
```

## Verify your compression

Use this query to view the size of your compressed chunks before and after applying compression:

```sql
SELECT pg_size_pretty(before_compression_total_bytes) as "before compression",
  pg_size_pretty(after_compression_total_bytes) as "after compression"

>   FROM hypertable_compression_stats('stocks_real_time');

Reviewer 3: Example output would be helpful (realizing that the sizes will be slightly different.

```

> 

Reviewer: Should this page also have a next steps section?

## Learn more about compression

For more information on how native compression in TimescaleDB works, as well as

> the compression algorithms involved, see this in depth blog post on the topic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the compression algorithms involved, see this in-depth blog post on the topic:
```

there might be situations where you need to [manually compress chunks][compress-manual]. 

Use this query to manually compress chunks that consist of data older than

> 2 weeks. Note that if you created the compression policy above, you will receive an error because the chunks are already compressed unless you add the `if_not_compressed` parameter shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2 weeks. If you create the compression policy above, you receive an error. This is because the chunks are already compressed unless you add the `if_not_compressed` parameter.
```
